# BrickBreaker

Brick Breaker - Multi-day project

In the brick breakers program, the paddle can be used to catch/hit the ball in order to hit the bricks. Each brick hit will result in a point until none are left. If the ball is not caught/hit by the paddle and leaves the bottom of the screen, then the game is over. 

During planning and creating the game. I was able to create a moving ball and paddle. Collisions were the main probles, although the collisions are detectable, which I first did with placing a box on the screen every time a collision occured. The collision between the ball and bricks don't work correctly. I made the bricks into an array so I wouldn't have to set the position and dimension for each one. However, this made the collisions hard. I could get the exact brick hit by the ball to be removed. Instead, the subroutine returns "true" and then the program "pops" the box at the 0 place in the array. This was the main problem, I couldnt figure out another way to get it to delete the current brick that collides with the ball so I worked on getting it to remove the brick in the current 0 index position.

As for organization, I began to organize the different classes into separate files and do a test run with the other classes imported in the current file I was working on. I then tranfered these test runs into the game engine into a run subroutine for the engine class. Any changes I made to the program in the other files would be incorporated into the engine class directly, this made it easier to stay organized with the main running program in one place. At the end, I imported the engine class into the main file where the program can now be run. 

To run the program, you press run and the game screen will appear. The ball will start to move and bounce off the sides of the screen. Using the "a" and "d" key, the paddle can be moved left and right. The paddle will not go off the screen though, and it cannot be move up and down as that defeats the purpose of the game. If the ball is not "caught" by the paddle, it will leave the bottom of the screen and the game will be over. The ball must be caught by the paddle in order to keep playing, this was done intentially because then the ball will bounce from the bottom of the screen and hit the bricks, defeating the purpose of the paddle. When the ball hits a brick, one will be removed and a point will be gained. Once all the bricks are gone, the game will end and the total points collected will be shown via print code.  
